welcome to sam's business growth show
i'm sam dunning a digital marketing
sales and business growth evangelist
tune in and subscribe today as i'll be
interviewing business leaders
experts and entrepreneurs from around
the globe you'll be learning their story
how digital marketing has helped them
along the way and exclusive tips
insights to help you skyrocket your own
business
[Music]
and welcome back to a fresh episode of
sam's business growth
show excited to be joined by scott
barker today scott was named the top
25 sales leader you should get to know
in 2020 by crunchbase
he's the head of strategic engagement at
outreach to io and oversees partnerships
and revenue at sales hacker
he's also host of the sales engagement
podcast he's author of the forecast
newsletter and head of the vancouver
chapter of the revenue
collective scott a very well welcome
mate how you doing
i'm excellent sam thank you so much for
for having me and i apologize for the
the long intro it's quite a mouthful
there oh no worries dude we've had much
much longer in the past we tried to keep
them a bit shorter and snappier because
i can only talk for so long anyway dude
looking forward to looking forward to
talking today scott
we're going to be covering the 10
revenue growth strategies for 2021 and
beyond
it's a big juicy topic and it's going to
have be full of
sales and digital marketing advice for
everyone tuning in today
and before we get to that scott can you
give us a quick snapshot for anyone that
does not know scott parker
perhaps a quick um intro to yourself and
what you're about scott
yeah for sure so currently right now
head of strategic engagement outreach so
what that actually means i know it's a
bit of an
ambiguous title i work very closely with
our sales marketing and business
development teams
as well as our vc firms our board of
directors
and our ecosystem partners really to
find ways
to drive pipeline uh and strategic
initiatives
through the whole organization so that's
what i'm doing right now i do host a
podcast on my own called the sales
engagement podcast as you mentioned
i write all about growth strategies in
my
my forecast newsletter comes out every
week um
but you know the background of of scott
barker i came
i came up in a certainly an
untraditional path
i'm actually a college dropout uh who
fell
into to sales actually in the the travel
industry
um and worked my way up into sales sales
leadership in that industry
from there made a a pivot into tech
about
six years ago now started at the bottom
uh as a bdr
you know cold calling every day making
100 dials
i had a lot of success quickly moved up
again uh through to leadership got to
build out teams got to build out
strategies
and was lucky enough to join saleshacker
three years ago
uh build out the revenue side and the
partnerships
side of that business um and we had a
heck of a run
and outreach acquired us in in 2018
where i've uh where i've been since
awesome man and um yeah no no you're a
bit of a sales legend i
i did hear your podcast with brandon
bonanson back some time ago where you
told your story of kind of how you went
from selling
i think it was was it holidays or
something like that for students and
then kind of worked your way up
yeah it was so yeah it actually started
i was 18 and straight out of high school
i moved to
uh australia actually to help open up a
sales office
um and at that time i was i was selling
golf and restaurant packages
door to door knocking on doors so that's
how it started
and then it went into selling kind of
these these travel
travel packages which was
uh high volume high pressure sales at
the time
good fun man yeah you definitely learn
quick in those kind of environments
that's for sure
awesome scott well um yeah let's dive
straight into it i know
you've got some you've got 10 strategies
that we can we can basically follow
through ourselves i think there's a bit
of marketing as well
so perhaps you could kick it off for us
with number one and then i'll dive in
with my thoughts and questions and we
can have a good conversation
yeah let's do it so i spent a lot of
time
thinking about kind of where sales and
marketing is going um
and and what is next
and of course in my current role a lot
of what it comes down to
is understanding relationships not just
that i have uh but across our entire
organization how we can activate those
so you know you mentioned a lot of folks
you know listening or are small
medium-sized businesses so an example
for this first one um and i think we're
going to see this
kind of explode with of course tools
like linkedin making it easier than ever
so let's say you have 40 people in your
organization uh not all
revenue facing of course but let's say
each of those 40 people have roughly you
know
30 potential buyers in their network
that they know personally
whether they're an engineer product
manager whatever
you know if they look long and hard at
their networks you know that
let's say have roughly 30 of those 30
buyers each one of those maybe has one
referral that they could give you okay
so
using very simple math that's you know 2
400 potential opportunities that are
just waiting there
sitting dormant at at the moment um
and of course this gets exponentially
higher as your organization grows
and it scales um but many of these
relationships never get used
right everyone is simply too busy doing
whatever
their thing is you know writing code
building product roadmaps
creating the newest marketing campaign
and they're not focused sometimes on
that
really low hanging fruit um
so if the ultimate goal of companies is
to grow revenue and increase shareholder
value
um why aren't we spending more time
understanding those dormant
relationships that sit
within our organization today like right
now
so that's i love that man and that's
definitely something i'm guilty of
straight away scott um
i i mean i saw a post i think as morgan
immigrant posted it recently anyway
it just sprung into my mind that i don't
ask for referrals enough sometimes
especially when i'm doing bits and
pieces of work whether it's
working new leads whether it's trying to
drum up new business whether it's worthy
working on existing customer projects
or just trying to grow the business and
work on the marketing because as you
know there's so many different strings
to pull when you run a business
um that we forget that referrals are a
bit of a gold mine
um and when you say referrals scott are
we talking about asking our existing
clients or existing customers
to pass us people they know are we
talking about leveraging our linkedin
network for perhaps
people we don't already do business with
but people that we know to us then
or is it both yeah i would say it's uh
both for sure and i would even take a
step back and kind of
what i'm proposing i guess as as one of
these
these 10 tips is what if one day
a quarter you know your entire company
stopped
and every single person whether they're
an engineer you know it doesn't matter
the role
uh dove into their internal networks
people that already trust them people
already know them and activated just
a select few close relationships that
your product or service could help
you know the impact on on pipeline of
that day would
would truly be astronomical because you
get to jump a couple steps ahead when
the trust is already built
um so i would actually stick i i would
start internally
get those referrals set up and then you
can kind of
get your web bigger and bigger as you go
uh once you've
turned them into champions okay
and how does that look on a kind of
tangible basis so say for example you
were looking at our linkedin network as
you mentioned at the start
would it just be a case of looking at
the connections we've already chatted to
in the past
and then asking them to book a call or
is there a bit more to it than that
scott do we need to
kind of strike up a conversation via dm
or
what what tips would you recommend on
that front
yeah i mean i don't think we have to to
over complicate it i would simply
you know whoever's leading this charge
whether it's marketing or sales when you
you block off this day and you call it
like pipeline generation day
everyone stops what they're doing just
focuses on this i would give everyone in
the company
you know uh a one-pager on your ideal
customer profile
or your personas that you typically sell
into
have them put those uh titles
into linkedin sales navigator um and
see who comes up and yeah it's as simple
as
sending them a dm because if these are
our true relationships you're leveraging
the people that already know these
people within your organization to get
things going
so you shouldn't have to have a very
complex uh
email or selling point it's really like
hey we're working with people like you i
know we have a relationship
you know let's chat about it definitely
man and like you say it's an
untapped gold mining that makes perfect
sense just spend one day
with yourself and the rest of your
colleagues doesn't matter the size of
your organization and just
tap those up and uh yeah that's that's
that's awesome man okay
like it what's what's next for scott
yeah for sure um
so next one it's kind of in line uh with
with the last one it kind of plays
nicely into it um
but i call it kind of you know champion
hopping
so again with tools like linkedin
there's another really interesting tool
that just came out that's called warmly
you can basically ingest
all of the champions of your product
that you have today so buyers who really
really like your product or service
let's say there's a hundred of them uh
you can now put them
into these different technologies um
and you will get an immediate alert when
people
jump when one of your champions jumps to
another organization
and we all know that uh the tenure these
days of
of sales and marketers and and really
any
uh persona is is pretty small so they're
hopping around a lot
and we found that you know jumping on
them right away those champions
um is a very quick way um
to get into other logos um so if you're
not doing this i would highly highly
uh recommend it nice no that's that's
cool i've not actually heard of that
tool before so that basically lets you
know as soon as
your your client perhaps your point of
contact at a certain company moves over
to another organization you'll get
an email will you and then you can
exactly nice
okay yeah and then i guess it's just a
case of getting back in touch with them
really as it's gotten just saying that
i've seen i see you've just moved
organization
what are you guys currently doing for
xyz whatever your product or service is
and putting that cool in to find out a
bit more about the organization what's
going on with them
totally yeah right it's all about you
know people talk a lot about
personalization
um in my eyes relevance is even more
important than
you know personalization so this gives
you a perfect
relevant touch point to reach out and
say hey i just saw you joined
company x um i know we did some great
work together
uh through our our product and service
at your last company
you know once you're settled in let's
have a time to chat
yeah man and there's nothing more
frustrating especially when you've got a
client you've got a really good
relationship with
perhaps you've done some really good
work for over the months or years
and um just all of a sudden they've
moved you've not heard anything and
yeah it's nice to know that you've got a
tool so you can kind of pick up where
you left off
and uh get get back involved cool man
like that one
all right scott so that's um number
three next for us lisa
let's keep it rolling man let's keep it
rolling um all right this is one
um i wrote about two two weeks ago
and actually came from uh another
uh incredible leader at outreach and
andrew newborn
and this is a little bit later stage so
this is when you're actually having
conversations with someone this is going
to boost your
your win rates um and you know a lot of
us
are are familiar with the term
multi-threading deals so multi-threading
deals means
you know make sure that you're not just
talking to one stakeholder
at the company that you're trying to
sell into right make sure you're talking
with their boss
maybe another stakeholder in another
department
and the more touch points you have
within a deal
uh the more likely it is you're gonna uh
win that deal of course and that's
that's fairly
uh known best practice now um sure
andrew brought up this idea which i
which i really like and we're
we're doubling down on uh internally
is not only just having your deals
multi-threaded
where it's you with you know three or
four touch points within the
organization but make sure that your
your internal executives are
are multi-threaded with their executives
so instead of
you being the uh the kind of node where
the three
points come off have yourself be there
but then your executives also directly
attached
so your vp is talking to their vp your
director is talking to their director
you know your marketing team is talking
to their marketing team
um and with that again the
the win rates go up pretty pretty
dramatically
okay so you you might have to help me
out a bit here scott because i'm a bit
ignorant on larger scale
larger size more enterprise level deals
i can't deal with the kind of small to
medium business size
um not too much on the higher level
enterprise but that makes perfect sense
where you've got the the multi-threaded
deals
where you've got more key stakeholders
involved in any project and you've got
longer time frames to get deals over the
line
um so when when you mentioned that so
getting other people from your
organization so
if you've got someone from your
marketing team speaking to their
marketer you've got your perhaps vp of
sales speaking to their vp yourself
is that just because they're more likely
to get along is that because we're
utilizing both touch points
we're getting more people involved in
the deal and we're also involving team
members from our side they're going to
speak the same languages as our
potential client side is that why or is
there a bit more to it
yeah i think it's it's all of those
things you mentioned right it's the the
language that you speak uh
there's almost a level of respect or
authority that comes on
when you're like okay my
my vp is giving you time let's get your
executive
team to buy in and give give them time
um
i had someone uh put it to me
in a funny way the other day um a
gentleman by the name of joe caprio
who's the ceo over at reprise
uh he said when you look on uh a comic
book cover
there's one of one of two things usually
there's a
a bad guy and a good guy or there's a
team of bad guys and a team of good guys
uh that are all like the same level so
he's like think of that
when you go into your next meeting um
you don't want to be the one that's kind
of
outnumbered uh and not that anyone's
good guys are bad guys but
uh it's a good way to to yeah yeah yeah
man that's a cool visualization i quite
like that
okay nice nice way to put it makes sense
all right well let's let's keep this
thing moving i think we're on number
number four
yeah let's keep it keep it going all
right number four um
so i use i use linkedin extensively
um our our executive team is
is just starting to use it more and more
frequently
and i know you sam use it a lot so it
can't be understated how powerful
linkedin is and most of us know that
right
um but something i'm i'm looking at
is we all know social media is not
reality um but we kind of seem to
forget and sometimes when you look at an
executive who's hypervisible on linkedin
it doesn't mean that they're the best or
frankly even good
at their designated role what it means
is they have a knack for content
marketing
pr and maybe some public speaking on top
of some level of
competency in their role um
and that skill set of course is very
different than
managing people and resources
effectively and making real
uh decisions like a an executive so uh
i think what we're gonna see as a growth
lever because
getting your executives visible on
linkedin is
gonna bring you so much brand awareness
so much free demand jim
it's crazy but i don't know if it's
if it's possible to have the executives
at our respective companies um
doing both like being public facing and
internally getting things done so i
actually think we're going to see a bit
of a
a split uh tough balance yeah it's such
a tough balance right you know you you
run your own business um and i think
someone at these larger organizations
we're almost going to see a split
between like they'll have their public
facing executives and
the people that that manage things
underway
um or sorry internally because
you know if if you truly double down as
an executive on linkedin it can almost
be a full-time job
it's certainly worth it but you can't
sacrifice
um things internally so i don't exactly
know what it looks like but
there's a lot of angles i could take
this as you said yeah i love i love
linkedin great content every day
it takes a lot of time you're right um
but it generates a lot of pipeline
it's as actually as a lot of people know
it's a great way to build trust
become what they call a thought leader i
don't like that term too much but it's
it's well overused but it is what it is
um and people can literally come out of
nowhere
as as i pretty much did um going from
sam dunning knowing he knows 12 months
ago
to sam dunning oh yeah he does digital
marketing that kind of thing
and as many others as many others done
has done have done in their space they
might not necessarily be the best at it
but because they're producing content
and because they're in front of you day
in day out with their text posts their
image posts
their videos their stories and whatever
it may be they're the one you keep in
mind but moving this on to your point
um getting executives onto linkedin as
you say it can be a very time consuming
thing
and especially if you've got sales reps
that need to be making certain calls
they need to be working with existing
clients
should they be set maybe an hour a day
to spend on linkedin or should they be
told
no nine to five is your selling time uh
you should do your linkedin work after
hours
which isn't necessarily a bad thing
because it's going to generate more
pipeline so it's in there in interest
but what your thoughts on that scott
yeah i i'm not sure exactly which way
we're going to go there's
there's a few different ways i think we
could go right there's
there's there's allocating time to it
which
if you know i'm currently leading let's
say a bd team or a sales team i
absolutely would be a proponent of
you know blocking off um an hour of your
time to spend on linkedin i think it
will be well worth the time
um but we might also see a break uh
in like further role specialization
where you would have kind of these
sellers but a lot of what they're doing
is creating content to
uh to stir up inbound leads and then you
have your
your outbound people that are still
banging out the the calls and stuff but
you'd have a few selections
thought leaders um let's say you pick
five or six people in your organization
and you you put them kind of on a
pedestal and you you let them do their
thing
um because i think it is really
important to have
that's interesting yeah that's really so
when you say that are you talking about
kind of leaving some cells to what we
call the more traditional sales so
they're perhaps doing their cold
outreach their their sdrs they're doing
their cold calls they're doing their
cold emails and
whatever kind of cold outreach they want
to generate the appointments and you've
got the account executives and so on and
above them in different tiers but then
are you saying you just have
say you were a mid-sized organization
you might have just have two or three
exclusive social sellers on linkedin
that are purely creating content to
generate pipeline and then they pass
that to the other sales reps is that
what you're saying
i think that could be a path forward
yeah
interesting i i think you
and and the thing is right not everyone
is good at creating
content it's totally different skill
right then then
uh persuasion then problem solving
it's a different skill you have to have
copywriting you have to be comfortable
in front of camera all these things
so we can't expect everyone to enjoy it
to like it
and to be good at it but certainly
you're going to find a few in your
organization that that have a natural
affinity for it
um and i'm saying just double down on
those people support those people
um and yeah maybe they they take their
own inbound leads maybe they pass them
off
um i'm i'm not sure we'll we'll have to
see how
it stands out it's a tough one willie
i'm i'm an advocate for
especially with sales letting um reps do
whatever they're best at for example if
they're really good on the phone
stick them on the phone if they're
awesome at email stick them on email
if they can social sell and they're not
just scrolling linkedin all day they're
actually
starting conversations their content is
actually generating leads and it's not
just there for likes and shares of
random stories aren't even relevant to
their product or service
yeah so as long as it's actually getting
the results then personally i'm all for
it
but i can see with larger organizations
it's going to be more difficult because
they've got to make sure that the reps
are actually putting in the time that
yields results and
that's a whole other conversation but
very very interesting it will be
interesting to see if there are
exclusive kind of roles that are just
purely social selling and generating a
pipeline from that we'll have to
we'll have to wait and see what the
future holds man all right well i'm
enjoying it so fast
i think we're halfway now halfway now so
number five let's let's do this
let's do it um all right so uh in line
i'll continue down this thread of
of thought leaders and i'm with you it's
such a ridiculous
term you know we all have 10 million
thoughts a day so
we're all familiar um
so i'll go i'll go back to a study we
did
about a year and a half ago on sales
hacker so sales hacker is a community of
about 165
000 b2b sellers so um we're able to
do some surveys and get some really
interesting data
and we we talked uh and we surveyed them
and we asked where they are getting
their information that informs their
buying decisions
right so we we asked them hey when
you're making a purchase where do you
look to
and it was really interesting the
results we got back so
over 40 they said
age group over 40 they said ebooks and
white papers
which is no surprise that's kind of been
best practice for the last you know five
years or so
build some ebooks and white papers
that's great you know
educate your buyers now the under 40
crowd
which are are largely going to be
getting into decision making
uh positions soon if not already um
ebooks and white papers were dead last
on on what was informing their decisions
uh the top two at number one
was thought leaders and influencers and
number two
was review sites um so
when you look at that data uh you really
have to change your sales and marketing
approach because what that says to me at
least
is people don't care what you have to
say anymore they care about what others
have to say about you
right so it's all about finding ways to
highlight
social proof and i think that trend is
just going to
continue um to
you know spread like wildfire and b2b
b2c
anywhere you are so as a seller or a
marketer
it's not your job to you know have a an
opinion on your product or service
anymore and explain all this
you have to speak through other people
who have had success with your
your product and your service um so
social proof is going to become
you know the the thing of the future um
and i've seen it firsthand you know that
the only way i've ever promoted my
personal newsletter the forecast is i
screenshot a comment
uh that someone has made about it and i
put that on
and then i'll get you know 100 people
sign up and that's the only way i've
ever promoted
gotcha nice one so that's very
interesting start again
um age 40 plus mainly ebooks and white
papers then the under 40s um
thought leaders so when when you say
that is that just people that
have got a big following on sites like
linkedin in the b2b space
are just commenting about certain
products or services just saying that
this is really good or
is there a bit more to it than that yeah
i mean they're they're looking at
they're asking what kind of technology
these people are using
it's the blogs they're writing it's it's
you know presentations like this about
what they're
um they're talking about which services
and products that they're they're using
and people are
copying and mirroring that um which
is super interesting and another thing
i'll highlight on that
um because my brain's now going is i
also think
we're we're gonna see and we're seeing
it already is
some of these thought thought leaders
best practices
will start to actually get baked into
our technology
and here's what i mean by that um i'm
not familiar i'm not sure if you're
familiar with with beck holland but she
does a lot of great work
um around uh cold outbound
you know sequences how to get someone's
attention
um well there's going to be a world very
very soon
where you could have her methodology the
way she writes
emails and um right into your sales
engagement solution so whatever
uh you know outreach uh
you name it whatever sales engagement
solution you're using you can actually
get that pre-populated
with her thoughts and how she does it
which i think will start to happen more
and more like imagine if
you could get the best sales ops uh or
sales engineer
to pre-populate your your sales force
with all the fields that they use
uh because it's you know the best way of
doing it um we're gonna see that
coming i i'd say over the next year or
two
man that's yeah that's some seriously
good technology i didn't even know you
could do that to be honest
so uh yeah that's that's very very
interesting
um and to to go back to the social proof
side of things
are there any ways that people that are
tuning in right now scott
kind of leverage that to their advantage
is it just the case of like you said in
your case
um you've got people that have given you
a solid view on your newsletter you've
taken a screenshot of their review and
then
posted that um on social media wherever
you needed to put it
is it just doing that are there other
ways we can leverage that
yeah i think there's there's a lot of
different ways that we can do it so most
people's
you know demos or calls or sales calls
are are recorded now
you might be using something like gong
or chorus um
like a conversational intelligence tool
um and you can track
when people you know are saying positive
things
about you whether it's in a demo or in a
customer success call
and i would make sure that you're
keeping that
somewhere and then you can compile those
into some sort of video of course i
would i would ask for permission first
um but i think there's tons of ways to
to utilize social proof um
so that that's one way i would make sure
you you're looking at all your
your call recordings your demo
recordings teasing out little anecdotes
that people say
about your products and service and
using that exact same language that
they use in your next call
great point great point i mean that's
that's something i've learned to do over
the years scott especially i mean
using your client's language literally
using what they say about your product
even on discovery calls when they're
saying they have issues with x y and z
and they're literally using the words to
describe that when you then use that
when you're talking about how your
solution can then help solve that
problem
they relate to it because you're putting
it in their language you're literally
using the words that they said
and it does help a lot it helps more
than you think so that's a really great
tip man i like that
okay well um there's some great points
there scott let's let's get on to number
six sir
yeah let's keep it rolling um all right
this is one that
uh i've been utilizing for a long time
this came from actually
our uh the ceo of saleshacker i think
you had on the
the show not that long ago max kind of
brought me into this world of
virtual assistants and we we've been
using virtual assistants at sales hacker
for
you know me for three years i think max
for about five years
and i think that all across b2b
um most sales and marketers
who are high performers uh in the next
year or two
will start leveraging virtual assistants
and what virtual assistants are
is someone in you know an
area let's say a third world country the
philippines
india where the cost of living is is
lower
um and so the the labor is cheaper these
are super well educated
people uh highly professional incredible
at their craft
and for a pretty small amount
of money and an hourly call nine bucks
an hour
uh you can get some of the more
repetitive
tasks that you do every day off of your
plate
um which you know it's so invaluable i
just
was using it earlier this week i was
doing a relationship mapping exercise
trying to map all of our uh executives
uh relationships to these accounts and i
was like oh this is taking me so long
um and i just you know got a google doc
going
i wrote down what needed to get done
passed it off to our virtual assistants
they got it done way faster than i could
have ever got it done
um so any of those repetitive tasks can
now be outsourced
i guess that old saying comes into play
scott do what you do best outsource the
rest
and it's something that i'm certainly
guilty of the times i'll be wrapped up
kind of messing around with
emails faffing around with google sheets
google docs all these different bits and
pieces that i might not necessarily
be the best use of my time when yeah you
can certainly delegate it and like you
said if it is a case of it's a data
entry job or it's something that someone
doesn't necessarily need to
to know exactly the ins and outs of your
job as long as they've got a brief idea
i guess it kind of makes sense to
to get that done if it's going to be
cost effective um
yeah it's all about valuing your your
time
you know give yourself hey i'm worth 500
an hour and then don't do any tasks
that aren't that don't fit that you know
and delegate the rest
outsource the rest uh there are tons of
options for you to
to do that now upwork yeah there's lots
of different different places
no nice one that's that's a solid tip
man and that makes perfect sense more so
for for business owners i guess even
sales professionals if you've got a lot
on your plate a lot of um deals to
get done of course to making if you need
help with managing your day to day i
guess that could fit in nicely as well
to be fair cool man all right well
number seven please sir
all right we're keeping it going um all
right this one is
um it came from i can't remember the
gentleman's name but i came across it on
linkedin
and of course we all spend so much time
now on zoom calls
you know eight hours a day we're all on
zoom calls kind of exploded
um and a lot of our our demos our
pitches our client-facing calls
um are still not using the kind of the
the full scope of what you can do now
since we're in a digital
atmosphere and a lot of people are still
relying on
you know boring power points to get a
point across
um and i think what we're going to see
is a lot more
kind of call it augmented reality where
you can actually
interact with your space um through your
presentation
there's a company called uh prezi
p-r-e-z-i
uh that's that's playing around with
this so imagine that instead of
you know me sharing my screen and you
just walked through a powerpoint i could
like
flip through it like here or something
or it could pop in from the side
and this is already happening and it's
going to make our presentations
so much more uh engaging
um i know i'm guilty of completely
zoning out on some zoom calls
uh if it's not completely relevant to me
but it's much harder to do that when
it's super engaging and
you know you're interacting and there's
all these things flying at you
um and you know the when you start going
down that path
the potential of that is really
limitless
right you could have backgrounds that
change programmatically
by who enters the zoom call right the
different personas you sell into
you could have a different quote there
you could have different things come in
so it's going to be super interesting
because this real estate
is very valuable right you you think of
how many millions of people are on
zoom uh every day companies are going to
wake up to the fact that
um all that space that's not being
utilized is very valuable
yeah that's that's really interesting
man i'm gonna have to check out that
that tool do you say it's called prezi
prezi yeah gotcha okay and i think from
what you've said that could
be beneficial definitely for the
prospective client or the existing
customer that we're doing our zoom call
our pitch our presentation
too to obviously keep them engaged and
have something a bit more interesting
engaging for them
but also maybe the seller because it
sounds like it's going to cause us to
move about a bit more
rather than just say we've had
back-to-back phone calls or meetings all
day
get into one of your last presentation
calls of the day and we're just kind of
clicking and talking and if we're
actually moving stuff around we're
waving at our webcam we're actually
we're physically moving as well as the
screen's engaging it'll probably keep
them a bit more
interactive a bit more active and um
yeah just just give everything a bit
more of a buzz really about it sounds
like which is
which is definitely something that's a
bit lacking it's like you say a lot of
presentations are a bit monotonous
they're the same kind of stuff
over and over uh same kind of power
points that you've seen
nice all right well that's that's cool
then that's that's a good way to spice
things up so i'll have to check out that
too
okay well heading towards the last
couple points now i think
last couple all right um so
here's kind of more of a uh i i guess
we'll call it a trend
uh that i'm that i'm seeing is uh
sales technology as a category you know
most of us have crm now most of that
have sales engagement tools sales
enablement tools
maybe chat maybe conversational
intelligence
we have all these different layers now
that are applied
um in our sales tech stack to make our
sellers more important
and more effective sorry um and i think
over the course of the next little while
what we're definitely going to see
is sort of a mass consolidation
a lot of these tools now are having
competing features with one another
um and similar to how what we saw in
in martech uh a few years back where
um there was a bunch of big acquisitions
a lot of the small players went away
um i think we're we're we're right for
that uh
in the in the coming years so
um i guess my my point there is make
sure that you're
you're internally looking um on to what
you're you're using
um because a lot of us kind of got tool
drunk and thought that technology
would fix all our problems and it
doesn't always so you need to be very
strategic with
what sales tech you you leverage
and make sure that your your internal
stack doesn't have too many
uh features and functions that overlap
with one another
yeah i'm probably the worst person to
speak to about tech stacks because i
keep things very very minimal i don't
even actually use a crm because i've
tried which
people have probably heard me say on the
show before and probably think so what
the heck are you doing with your life
but i've yeah i mean i'm one of those
people that have tried most most of the
major ones salesforce
hubspot pipedrive um and just couldn't
get on with them just don't enjoy kind
of the manual data entry and i'm very
very forgetful so i like to just have
got two screens here i've got my google
sheet on my second screen which is
customized to my needs
just putting myself sales lead data
there and i'm good to go i've got it in
one clean place but i think ultimately
is working out what works for you so
not getting complacent and understanding
the technology that's actually going to
help you make
best better use of your time and kind of
not causing you faffing about but if
there are any um
perhaps more unusual tools in sales or
marketing that people might not have
heard of scott that you think
could help people that day-to-day
selling or marketing activity that we
might not have heard of
yeah i mean i i can go on and on uh one
thing i'll say there to
to your point is you know sales
engagement tools like outreach have
actually now
we've got to a point where you don't
have to do the manual entry anymore
which is really cool and exciting
you can actually have all of your emails
and all the fields pre-populate
in your crm for you um so sam i would
push back and say
go check out some sales engagement stuff
no you don't have to do it anymore
uh manually um so i think you know
sales engagement is is a category i've
been around for a long time i think it's
going to absolutely explode it's going
to become as big as crm
in the next couple years um but i
i mentioned a few things prezi go check
it out i think it's cool
this new tool warmly that tracks your
champions when they hop around
uh is interesting i love the
conversational intelligence space
right now it's really cool basically
tracks all of your
your zoom calls and recordings and picks
out different uh
insights um that
that you can use you know bringing up uh
budgets in the first half of the call
is going to be you know better than if
you do it at the end
or help you watch your talk time so
you're not talking more than your
prospect
so that's really cool now that
everything's done uh digitally and
excited for that space to to continue to
grow
and you know i also love
you know there's this company called uh
replays
as well that is awesome they do uh
digital on-demand coaching
which is more important than ever so you
could actually send them uh
a sales presentation and say hey how'd i
do and they have a team of vps of sales
and cros that will
um will kind of dissect it for you and
point out your blind spots
that's cool uh postal.io is another
really cool one
uh they're basically bringing um b2b
gifting um make it like as easy as a
click of a button
uh to send something really interesting
and thoughtful to
to your prospect um so yeah i could go
on and on i
i'm very much a sales tech nerd
i was gonna say i'm happy to nerd out on
tools and technology and try and listen
all day long but i'm sure we we've got
to keep things moving all right the pen
ultimate
pen ultimate tip please um scott yeah
yeah
um all right this one is uh one
uh this originally came from ryan moon
he's the vp of sales over at
uh allocator acadia and this is
something we've been doing instead of
demos this is more for for bigger
companies but you could
you could mirror the same approach um
with smaller accounts as well
and they they replaced uh demos so
trying to set up demos
with setting up uh assessments
instead so instead of having your team
out there trying to book demos or
discovery calls
try having your team put together
an industry segment or category
assessment
uh that gives the prospects uh
organization a snapshot into the health
of their business
in that particular area so for example
um if you're selling you know
outreach which is a sales engagement
platform
instead of going hey do you want a demo
of my software you could say
hey you know are you interested in doing
a
a sales sequence assessment you know we
work with
4 500 different sales orgs so we know
kind of the best practices for sales
sequences
we'll be able to look at them together
and give you some feedback on how you're
doing and what you can improve
and all of a sudden it becomes a much
easier sell for your team to set up
these meetings
and it's a standalone value ad so just
by them showing up to the meeting
they get value from it and they don't
have to actually buy your product
and service so it's all about creating
uh value in every interaction
quite like that okay so instead of the
the demo side of things and i guess that
takes it from
a more generic level because a lot of
demos
not all them but a lot of demos do tend
to be quite generic especially if
there's a software as a service which is
not that necessary customizable
to each company each demo is going to be
much as muchness
whereas what you're talking about sounds
like more a more of a tailored approach
so we're actually spending some time to
actually review something do an
assessment so
in case in this case it might be an
email sequence an email train
and actually analyzing that giving some
tips and perhaps how our product or
service can
can improve that is that right scott
yeah exactly
exactly and you can think of how
whatever product or service you're
selling how how that could apply
it's basically giving them you know the
knowledge that you have
i always say you know teach them
everything you know
and everything that your product and
service does basically you teach them
all
and then at the end you go hey and we we
make this infinitely easier if you want
it
you know uh it's really kind of that
that simple
got it so i guess that's more work up
front but then
you're standing out from your
competition because you're actually
doing a lot more research you're
reviewing what they've got right now
and you're basically showing how you can
help them from the start
yeah totally awesome man well yeah
that's that's a great tip so let's let's
hear number 10 the final the final one
number 10.
all right number 10 we'll keep this one
short and sweet i know we're going a
little bit long
um i i would just say for for sales and
marketers
out there um on the the front line
i think over the next few years uh
copywriting
and creativity um are going to be
two of the most powerful skills that
you'll you'll need to learn
and growth levers that you can pull uh
more so than
you know sales is at a long standing um
kind of hustle hustle hustle uh culture
um which we're seeing now you know
since covid started i i read this stat
that 30
more emails are being sent so if you're
just doing more of something
it doesn't matter it's not going to work
you know you're just speeding in the
wrong direction
so take time to be thoughtful
up level your copywriting skills get
hyper creative
uh more is not always better um and
that's how
companies and and people are going to
win in the future
love that love that i've been saying for
a while that sales people need to become
marketers
in fact i've been preaching that on a
few podcasts lately i've had a few
arguments with people on linkedin
uh basically where i'd say i i've
basically been riling a lot of people up
the wrong way ruffling feathers because
i say look you can't rely on your on
your marketing team
even though i'm a digital marketer and i
help clients generate more inbound leads
through their digital presences
you can't rely on your marketing team to
feed you leads even though they might
feed you but several leads you might
have to distribute those between
different sales people
or business owners depending on the size
of your organization and if you're
sitting there idle waiting for leads
then you're gonna be
you might be waiting a while depending
on how many leads you get every day
if you're like you say score if you're
creating content each and every day
whether that's through linkedin whether
that's via email whether that's through
other social channels that your
customers hang out on you're one step
ahead ahead of everyone else aren't you
totally yeah it's funny you say that i i
did a presentation as well uh recently
called uh the four uh the four things
sales people should steal for marketers
and i'm totally with you man they're
the the lines are blurring i think
marketers need to become sales people
and sales people need to become
marketers in
in the new world how long until
marketers get equator
i think it's happening man it's
happening and differently in some of the
circles
i mean a lot of marketers are getting
tied to i think a lot would lose jobs
man i mean this is
not damon but i think a lot of markers
would leave shots
i think the ones that are embracing that
and saying hey i want to be tied to a
number
um are are going to reap big benefits
and you're seeing they're they're
starting to stand out i hope that
happens soon i really do
um awesome scott look really appreciate
this um it's been 10
awesome valuable tips for everyone
tuning in and so thank you so much
and thank you for giving us lots of
actual tips you can put into place
straight away
um scott please do tell us more about
yourself your business anything you'd
like to promote and how people can learn
from you
and get in touch with yourself sir yeah
for sure
first off thanks everyone for for
listening to this and sam thanks for
for having me um so follow me on
linkedin scott barker i
share similar tips like this almost
every day
i've got a newsletter called the
forecast um that
you know again it's right right in this
same same ballpark i talk about best
practices of the future
in sales and marketing go check out
saleshacker www.saleshacker.com
um and yeah if you're looking for
something uh to make
uh your outbound motion uh your entire
sales revenue organization more
efficient go check out uh
outreach as well outreach.io awesome man
scott
thank you once again sir thank you so
much sam appreciate it
cheers dude if you enjoyed the show
please do search sam's business growth
show on your podcast channel of choice
be it youtube be
apple spotify wherever the heck you get
your podcast we interview business
leaders each and every week
to help you grow your sales grow your
business and make best use of digital
marketing thank you very much for tuning
in
are you tired of constantly hunting for
new customers
you could be missing out on regular
inbound opportunities all because
your website isn't on the first page of
google
perhaps you're already spending lots of
money on advertising but your website is
failing to convert
all of your hard-earned visitors into a
consistent flow
of new customers if you'd like to learn
more about our unusual approach
that brings idle clients straight to you
connect with sam dunning on linkedin
or book a free 20-minute consultation
via webchoiceuk.com
that's webchoiceuk.com
subscribe today for more digital
marketing sales and business growth tips
from the experts